# Jarvis-AI-Voice-Assistant

AI-based Voice assistant that can recognize human voice and respond via integrated
voices. This voice assistant will gather the audio from the microphone and then
convert that into text, later it is sent through GTTS (Google text to speech). GTTS
engine will convert text into audio file in English language, then that audio is played
using play sound package of python programming Language. An intelligent virtual
assistant (IVA) or intelligent personal assistant (IPA) is a software agent that can perform
tasks or services for an individual based on commands or questions. As we know Python
is a suitable language for script writers and developers. Let’s write a script for Voice
Assistant using Python. The query for the assistant can be manipulated as per the user’s
need.


## Libraries / Modules
This project only runs on Python 3.7 or above, if you have python < 3.7 version it may or may not work.

## Required Modules:
The following libraries should be installed to run this project

• pyttsx3
• speech_recognition
• pywhatkit
• wikipedia
• pyjokes
• webbrowser
• python_weather
• requests, json

you can install these libraries using the command prompt or any IDE terminal

### To install these libraries or modules
you can google the library name and visit the official python website. then you can copy
the library name and install it using 
### pip install nameOfTheLibrary




### Features

Voice Assistant respond to your commands by the respective keyword of each
operation. It will respond according to the keyword you speak. You can interact with your
laptop’s microphone/console. The response generated by the assistant will display on the
console or as a speech via the speaker.

### Voice Assistant will able to do the followings things:
• Weather forecasting
• Search Websites
• Launch Windows Applications
• Play Music
• Tells you date and time
• Greetings
• Tell you a joke
• Plays Music
• Read Wikipedia
• Send Email
• Shutdown the System
• Plays Youtube videos, etc..



### Voice Commands

Voice Assistant will respond according to your commands. The commands you give
are keywords for each and every operations performed. the Commands for each
operations are listed below

### Commands:
“play” - plays youtube songs you can play whatever songs you want by giving this
command.
example: play tamil songs

“date” – tells you today’s date
example: tell me the date

“time” – tells you the current time
example: what is the current time

“who” – tells you about a person using wikipedia
example: who is abdul kalam

“day” – tells you today’s day
example: what day is today

“joke” – tells you a english joke
example: tell me a joke

“assalamu alaikum” – replies “walaikum salaam”

“how are you” – replies “alhamdhullilah”

“hai” – replies “hello there”

Following Command opens windows applications:

“open chrome”
“open pictures”
“open notepad”
“open word”

“what is the weather in” – tell you the weather in celcius you can name the city you want
to know about the particular city.

example: what is the weather in bangalore


“send email” – sends email,you should enter your email id in main.py, you should enter the receiver’s email id and you can speak
the message you want to send it will automatically convert it to text and sents the mail.

“what is your name” – tells you the name of the assistant

“stop” – stops the execution.



### Output Example

• To see Weather forecasting
